# Viral
Nowadays, computer applications are comprised of massive computations that entail the use of high-performance computing environments. Unfortunately, high costs and power management must be addressed while operating these environments.
Volunteer Computing (VC) allows for the establishment of a global network of com- puting devices capable of accumulating enough computing power to outperform any supercomputer. It refers to the use of underutilised computing power donated by volunteers worldwide who want to help solve common problems. Volunteers who par- ticipate in volunteer networks do not expect any compensation for their participation; in other words, the only thing that may entice them to join volunteer networks is a desire to advance research. Also, credit points can be added to their profiles to identify those who have made the most significant contributions. Later, we can use these credit points to give them priority in running their tasks on the same network in the future.
In the last thirty years, there have been numerous VC frameworks introduced. How- ever, most of these frameworks became obsolete as they were unable to cope with the increasingly challenging threats in the internet network. Most of the VC projects are based on the Berkeley Open Infrastructure for Network Computing (BOINC) frame- work, which is an open-source middleware system used to run a wide range of volunteer computing projects in a variety of scientific fields including molecular biology, mathe- matics, cryptography, linguistics, and astrophysics.
In fact, BOINC only supports client-server network topology, which means that all volunteers participating in the same research project get their work from the same resource, which is usually a website server with decent technical specifications. How- ever, this type of network has a single point of failure (SPOF), which means that if this server fails, the entire network will fail, resulting in the failure of the execution of the research project.

We study the use of Peer-to-Peer networks (P2P) to run volunteer projects instead of client-server networks. Each network peer has the same privilege not only in solving the main problem but also in scheduling and distribution. We still need one peer to hold the main task to be performed in this type of volunteer computing, but because in a P2P network several peers can act as server and client at the same time, failure of peers acting as server can be recovered by others. However, because participants in P2P volunteer networks are anonymous (unknown to the server and therefore inaccessible) and autonomous (participants can join and leave at their own discretion), the question of how long peers can participate in our network remains unanswered.
In fact, P2P networks suffer from the effect of Churn, which refers to the unpredictability of a large number of arriving and departing devices in a short time. As a result of this effect, the server will initiate task migration, which will allocate a new available peer to continue the execution of the remaining jobs. Furthermore, load balancing in a P2P network is in high demand, with the main goal being to make all peers exert the same amount of effort in terms of power consumption. This should take into account the network’s heterogeneity, which implies that each peer has its own available computing power, which is proportional to the usage percentage and the number of cores.

In this thesis, we describe the design of a P2P volunteer computing framework that addresses all of the aforementioned challenges. It enables users to create their own computing environment simply by sharing the project invitation. Those who accept the invitation will become members of the network and contribute to computing. The experimental results of our simulations show the potential of this framework. This is manifested by the development of novel approaches for task scheduling, task migration, and packet routing.
